a longtime fan and support of the
channel on patreon
ODS wrote in asking for recommendations
for what he should read about the
history and politics of China this is
gonna be a short answer because I think
the vast majority of what's available in
the English language is complete garbage
and it's not just that I wouldn't
recommend it the general history looks
on China I often have to urge people
warned people not to read them because
they're really really misleading if
you're not going to get into very
specific single topic academic articles
that are very hard to find anyway there
is there is some good scholarship up
there on history and politics in China
but any book you pick up that just says
China on the cover the history of China
China thirteen hundred to nineteen
hundred anything like this of course
there were some that cover five thousand
years it's all terrible why is it
terrible yes some of it is propaganda
more often what you're dealing with is
boosterism boosterism is different from
propaganda I remember there was one book
called the shorter science and
civilization of China so shorter as part
it was a condensed version of a longer
work called science and civilization in
China famous and the whole work just the
whole book just consisted of the most
you know laughable attempts to bend over
backwards and convince you that China
was the most wonderful most
inspirational civilization of history of
the world even things that were terrible
about it were wonderful you can read
that sort of really embarrassing thing
coming out of the Muslim world
every so often - I remember a book that
was on the history of science under
Islam where the office so read this it's
like worse it's worse than the worst
communist propaganda but it's neither
Pro communist nor any communist
it's just boosterism it's just trying to
tell you that everything in ancient
China was wonderful
and of course we would never tolerate
this for medieval Europe we wouldn't
even tolerate this for Antebellum you
know North America United States America
or something you know yeesh
yeah there's a lot of complete garbage
out there on library shelves and store
shelves under the heading of Chinese
history and politics and civilization
and the situation is not getting better
it's getting worse as bad as that book
was that I just mentioned as an example
when it was published there was real
money to be made in publishing
nonfiction you could you could put
together a proposal and go to a
publisher and say hey I'm gonna do the
research and writing I'm gonna give you
a book that says China and big letters
whatever it is China 1,500 to 1,900 or
no China from the Han Dynasty to present
and that book really had the chance to
make a lot of money and today if you go
into the world expecting to find a good
book on a topic you should ask yourself
first who paid to publish it
increasingly non-fiction publishing is a
charity not a for-profit business and if
there isn't some foundation or some
government interest if there isn't
someone losing money to make the book
happen it's very likely it won't happen
at all if you want a whirring example
let me ask you something who abolished
slavery first Europe or China have you
have you seen any books in English on
the history of the abolition of slavery
in China
no the research hasn't been done in
English and it's never gonna be done
it's my lifetime there will be no
groundbreaking new book published on the
abolition of slavery in China and I'm
not gonna write it myself either and
this financial constraint is crucial to
understanding that okay so if these
warnings haven't been stated this young
man asked me for a recommendation I'm
gonna give one that's about ancient or
pre-modern China and one that's both the
politics of modern China in terms of the
wonder that was China before the
Revolution before
modern and Western technology arrived
what I recommend is a work of fiction
called the water margin a work of
traditional Chinese literature so water
margin and English is also known as
outlaws of the marsh this gives the
title all men are brothers I've
definitely seen heroes of the marsh in
any case shui huge Juan is translated
into English as the water margin it's a
terrible translation of the title and it
is available in several different
English translations why is this book so
important useful why would I recommend
this to someone who's interested in the
history of China whereas I'm warning
against badly biased history books and
again some of those history books are
biased because they're pro-communist
some of them are biased because they're
anti-communist
but some of them are just of poor
quality alright let's let's be clear but
yes
within the last 50 years the main spark
illuminating english-language interest
in China has been communism including
the disaster of communism but what a
great many books including books
professors have handed to me in a
university context are written with an
overt pro-communist bias and they are
not worth reading for that reason unless
you're interested in research into the
nature of communist propaganda and it
may not be obvious to you as a non
specialist or an outsider that what
you're reading is communist propaganda
or it may not be obvious until it's too
late years later you look back and
realize wow that was a really biased
version mr. Chen so however history can
be biased more ways than one it can be
bad in more ways than one in terms of an
introduction to the wonder that was
China the water margin is a work of
literature it's a work of fiction
written by someone who is profoundly
discontent with his own culture and
society right at the beginning of the
book right in the first couple volumes
shall we say you have a depiction of how
the prison system works and the prison
system is corrupt you have a depiction
of how the Buddhist monasteries work and
the Buddhist monasteries are shown to be
flagrantly corrupt you have a depiction
of how torture works and people paying
bribes to the torturer to alleviate
their suffering you get this very
strange step-by-step analysis of that
society and the author's view of what's
wrong with it and from this author's
perspective practically everything
that's wrong with it now you might think
I'm describing some work of carefully
studied social realism and this is in
fact a an adventure story with elements
of magic elements of kung-fu and sword
fighting and swashbuckling you might say
however both the author's interests and
my interest at least in reading it today
is the way in which it carefully depicts
how that society works both in terms of
organization and even the technology
that defined daily life so when I
fatally said before you figure out how
the court system works you get
descriptions of how someone would sit
down and pay a scribe to record their
sworn testimony to present to the court
you see the way in which that society
relied on handwritten documents people
didn't have identity cards to prove who
they were you would show up and present
something in writing and the person
receiving it would have to scrutinize it
and confirm that the handwriting in what
you've presented matches the handwriting
with the governor from that province
well I'm familiar with this governor's
handwriting and they would really have
to watch for fraud and what-have-you and
and again the author is very interested
in the way in which fraud vidiots the
whole society the dishonesty bribery
fraud he's very interested in showing
the police and the courts as being
morally no better than the the robbers
the bandits and so on it's very
addressed it's very careful studying
this way now I have not read the whole
of the water margin I think I read the
first four volumes of my translation ito
and I forget if it was four volumes at a
nine I forget how many there were but
it's a long long work and each volume I
read was about the size of a novel you
know in terms of understanding how China
worked the social inequality and the
different forms of cooperation between
people even religion the way in which
Buddhism and Taoism and vegetarianism
were part of daily life there's a lot
there you can learn from reading the
water margin and it's presented in a
very unpretentious way because it's
presented to an audience it's already
very familiar with that that social
setting but for a modern person to even
understand how how a restaurant worked
its F period there there's a there are a
lot of mechanisms of daily life
described how farming worked how the
economy worked under feudalism and as I
say the legal system the political
system how the land was governed and how
people on a face-to-face level
interacted with their oppressors I can
say the book is written in a way that's
that's very interesting now I said I
didn't finish it and I may just be too
busy to ever return to and finish
reading the water market it's also
possible who'd become less and less
interesting to me as it goes on because
in those early books you get all that
description of how society works and I
don't know where it goes from there I
don't know I mean once you get past vol
3 or volume 4 maybe you've hit a point
of diminishing returns where there isn't
any anything really new to is what I
don't know or maybe maybe there really
is a lot more that's valuable later on
but
you know it's a book that also scholarly
progress has been made in identifying
the correct conclusion of the book in
Chinese and to my knowledge the correct
conclusion has never been translated
into English so part of me wanted to
wait for a new translation and future
that would bring together the findings
of recent scholarship and really give a
definitive and correct ending so you
know because I do wonder in terms of the
author's intent the artistic intent and
the moral of the story I don't know if
I'd really want to read it with the
current bad ending an ending that we now
know it's not really what the author
intended so yeah the water margin is
very very instructive in all those ways
and from my perspective the descriptions
of swordfights
are absolutely no interest but if you
find them entertaining good for you
because you'll be learning and at the
same time you'll be entertained at the
opposite end of the historical and
political spectrum the book that people
will be talking about in the year 2020
2021 is the English translation of how
the red Sun rose by Galois so how the
red Sun rose was published in the year
2000 in Chinese but it only emerged in
English translation in 2019 so it's
definitely still a new thing sending
shockwaves I have to tell you I feel I
already know a lot about this book
because I have read other works that
were influenced by it I have not seen
the English nor of course I haven't read
it in Chinese either it's a book that
fundamentally shifted analytical
attention from the post 1949 a period of
communism to what happened in the
formative years between say 1930 and
1945 when is so to be clear this is not
about the foundation of communism in
China this is not about the creation of
chemistry it's really about the way in
which communism was
recreated and redefined in one place at
one time under the leadership of Mao
Zedong how Mao Zedong established his
own authority and the way in which his
version of communist doctrine was
significantly different from the
Orthodox Russian version of communism
how that was first articulated and how
Mao Zedong first put himself in a
position of unquestioned authority and
how Mao Zedong first started carrying
out purges massacres if you like
persecution trial and massacres of
political enemies as part of this
snowballing of his of his unique
political authority so that no I haven't
read the book yet I will at least make
time to look at the book to evaluate the
book my apprehension is that while this
book was intended to demolish a certain
myth about the history of the Communist
Party the origin that comes party it's
meant to demolish certain myths about
the purges themselves persecution and
mass murder under Chinese communism I'm
very apprehensive that it actually
creates another myth that's put in its
place and even though this book is
considered anti-communist it's banned in
communist China it's illegal in
communist China gets printed in Chinese
in Hong Kong and then mysteriously
distributed I don't know oh to the back
of someone's car trunk or something and
in China it's it's contraband in China
we could say that even though the book
is considered anti-communist and a
challenge to the Communist Party it
nevertheless I'm deeply apprehensive
than in effect it's not anti-communist
enough that it is in its way a new
Meisel valor that it's mmm yeah I'm
concerned that it creates it creates
another myth and again I've only I've
read this book I'm sorry I have
this book but I have read other works
influenced by it and I can I can see its
influence across the board in Chinese
some discussion of Chinese politics and
I think there are actually important
questions to pose challenging this idea
that it's really that period before 1945
that defined all these elements then
obviously you're demoting or
disregarding some other important
elements of history that some important
things maybe were improvised at a later
date
developed in some sub so look import
interesting questions they go
the situation with english-language
publications on Chinese history and
politics is bad and it's only going to
get worse you know
a lot of people ask is a sort of snide
joke
what's the point of studying a subject
like this in university and believe me
this is a question that gets put to me
and it gets put to my girlfriend also
what's the point of studying something
university that can't possibly earn any
money it really becomes a much more
profound question if we look at the body
of scholarship and realize that in each
generation this has been transformed
again and again with the assumption that
publishing groundbreaking exciting new
books about history and politics could
earn money and in a field like this now
that has disappeared so how I mean what
we're talking about here is not the
progress of science if you invent if you
invent a slightly better light bulb you
can be sure millions of dollars will be
generated by it very trivial
improvements in science technology can
correspond to massive amounts of money
being unleashed for the creators and
manufacturers very profound improvements
in the writing of history very important
and substantive improvements in the
understanding of politics now
corresponds to absolutely no money no
wealth being generated for
and of course this is especially true if
you're talking about books written in
English
about China you know if you're talking
about books written in Italian about
Italy maybe there's a little tiny bit of
a financial incentive so we definitely
need to move beyond a sort of snide a
set of recriminations about the
uselessness of academia in generating
money in people's lives and move on to a
productive critique of how scholarship
is supposed to work not even at a
break-even basis but at a loss